.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/task-infrastructure.md, before:

---
name: Infrastructure Task
about: Create a task for infrastructure, DevOps, or environment setup
title: "[T-XXX] Infrastructure Task: "
labels: ["task", "infrastructure", "devops"]
assignees: []
---

## Task Overview
**Story Reference**: S-XXX - Story Name
**Epic**: OSINT Research Platform
**Estimated Hours**: XX-XX hours
**Priority**: [Highest/High/Medium/Low]

## Implementation Phases

### Phase 1: Planning & Design (X hours)
- [ ] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2

### Phase 2: Implementation (X hours)
- [ ] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2

### Phase 3: Testing & Validation (X hours)
- [ ] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2

## Technical Requirements

### Infrastructure Components
- [ ] Docker configuration
- [ ] CI/CD pipeline setup
- [ ] Database configuration
- [ ] Security implementation

### Performance Targets
- [ ] Response time requirements
- [ ] Throughput specifications
- [ ] Resource utilization limits
- [ ] Scalability targets

## Implementation Steps

### Environment Setup
```bash
# Commands or configuration examples
```

### Configuration Files
```yaml
# YAML configuration snippets
```

## Testing Criteria

### Infrastructure Tests
- [ ] Service startup and health checks
- [ ] Configuration validation
- [ ] Performance benchmarks
- [ ] Security compliance

### Integration Tests
- [ ] Service dependencies
- [ ] Network connectivity
- [ ] Data persistence
- [ ] Backup and recovery

## Security Considerations
- [ ] Access controls and permissions
- [ ] Data encryption requirements
- [ ] Network security measures
- [ ] Audit logging implementation

## AI Coding Brief
```yaml
role: "You are a senior DevOps engineer practicing Infrastructure as Code."
objective: "Implement reliable, secure, and scalable infrastructure components."
constraints:
  allowed_paths:
    - docker/
    - .github/workflows/
    - scripts/
    - docs/infrastructure/
  tools: "Docker, GitHub Actions, PostgreSQL, Redis"
  security:
    - "NEVER include author attribution in commits or code"
    - "Do not reference AI assistance in any deliverables"
    - "Follow security best practices for container and network security"
tests_to_make_pass: []
definition_of_done:
  - "All infrastructure components start successfully"
  - "Health checks pass for all services"
  - "Security scanning shows no critical vulnerabilities"
  - "Performance targets are met"
  - "Documentation is complete and accurate"
  - "No attribution or AI references in code/commits"
```

## Completion Criteria
- [ ] All infrastructure components deployed and tested
- [ ] Performance baselines established and documented
- [ ] Security measures implemented and validated
- [ ] Team trained on deployment and maintenance procedures
- [ ] Documentation complete and reviewed

---
**Links**:
- Task File: `planning/tasks/T-XXX-task-name.md`
- Related Story: `planning/stories/S-XXX-story-name.md`
- Infrastructure Docs: `docs/infrastructure/`

Commit message:

Implement comprehensive AI attribution prevention system
- Created automated detection script to find and remove AI attribution
- Added GitHub Actions workflow to block commits with attribution violations
- Implemented pre-commit hook to prevent attribution at commit time
- Updated all AI coding briefs with explicit no-attribution security requirements
- Enhanced all user stories with attribution prohibition constraints
- Fixed false positives to only detect actual attribution violations
- Successfully removed all existing attribution from codebase

Security requirement: No AI attribution allowed for compliance reasons

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/task-infrastructure.md, after:

---
name: Infrastructure Task
about: Create a task for infrastructure, DevOps, or environment setup
title: "[T-XXX] Infrastructure Task: "
labels: ["task", "infrastructure", "devops"]
assignees: []
---

## Task Overview
**Story Reference**: S-XXX - Story Name
**Epic**: OSINT Research Platform
**Estimated Hours**: XX-XX hours
**Priority**: [Highest/High/Medium/Low]

## Implementation Phases

### Phase 1: Planning & Design (X hours)
- [ ] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2

### Phase 2: Implementation (X hours)
- [ ] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2

### Phase 3: Testing & Validation (X hours)
- [ ] Task 1
- [ ] Task 2

## Technical Requirements

### Infrastructure Components
- [ ] Docker configuration
- [ ] CI/CD pipeline setup
- [ ] Database configuration
- [ ] Security implementation

### Performance Targets
- [ ] Response time requirements
- [ ] Throughput specifications
- [ ] Resource utilization limits
- [ ] Scalability targets

## Implementation Steps

### Environment Setup
```bash
# Commands or configuration examples
```

### Configuration Files
```yaml
# YAML configuration snippets
```

## Testing Criteria

### Infrastructure Tests
- [ ] Service startup and health checks
- [ ] Configuration validation
- [ ] Performance benchmarks
- [ ] Security compliance

### Integration Tests
- [ ] Service dependencies
- [ ] Network connectivity
- [ ] Data persistence
- [ ] Backup and recovery

## Security Considerations
- [ ] Access controls and permissions
- [ ] Data encryption requirements
- [ ] Network security measures
- [ ] Audit logging implementation

## AI Coding Brief
```yaml
role: "You are a senior DevOps engineer practicing Infrastructure as Code."
objective: "Implement reliable, secure, and scalable infrastructure components."
constraints:
  allowed_paths:
    - docker/
    - .github/workflows/
    - scripts/
    - docs/infrastructure/
  tools: "Docker, GitHub Actions, PostgreSQL, Redis"
  security:
    - "🚨 CRITICAL: NEVER include any AI, Claude, or assistant attribution anywhere"
    - "🚨 CRITICAL: NEVER use phrases like 'Generated with Claude', 'Co-Authored-By: Claude', etc."
    - "🚨 CRITICAL: Do not reference AI assistance in code, comments, commits, or any deliverables"
    - "🚨 CRITICAL: This is a SECURITY REQUIREMENT - violations will be automatically detected and removed"
    - "Follow security best practices for container and network security"
tests_to_make_pass: []
definition_of_done:
  - "All infrastructure components start successfully"
  - "Health checks pass for all services"
  - "Security scanning shows no critical vulnerabilities"
  - "Performance targets are met"
  - "Documentation is complete and accurate"
  - "No attribution or AI references in code/commits"
```

## Completion Criteria
- [ ] All infrastructure components deployed and tested
- [ ] Performance baselines established and documented
- [ ] Security measures implemented and validated
- [ ] Team trained on deployment and maintenance procedures
- [ ] Documentation complete and reviewed

---
**Links**:
- Task File: `planning/tasks/T-XXX-task-name.md`
- Related Story: `planning/stories/S-XXX-story-name.md`
- Infrastructure Docs: `docs/infrastructure/`
